Let's look at an example of how EM progresses.
And so, if this was the initial data points,
it would be like this.
And so this is a repeating video.
So our goal was that it would find the dataset that would be here,
clustered here, and then the second dataset would be clustered here.
And so, this run is clearly not successful
in finding the two clusters that we are initially after,
and that's because of the inputs that we gave it.
So here, we chose a random manual initialization of the Gaussian,
s and we didn't pick good initial parameters for the Gaussians.
But, also, this is a spherical covariance,
which means each Gaussian was only given a mean and a variance.
There are other ways of setting the covariance type,
and we will look at that in the next few slides here.
So let's do a better type of initialization.
So we make it the default,
which is it would do k-means and then use the results of
k-means to initialize the Gaussians in the beginning.
And so if we run it,
it would look like this.
So we can see that it's converging to two Gaussians,
but it's still not finding the two clusters that we are after.
So this is a good time to try to change the covariance type.
So instead of having simple circular Gaussians,
we need to be able to use a covariance matrix instead of a variance for each Gaussian.
And so that allows our circles to be ellipses,
and it also allows them to be rotated somewhat.
So that's the example we'll see here.
So these are the defaults for doing Gaussian mixture model in k-means,
which is the covariance would be full and
the initialization would be the default to k-means.
And so if we run it, it looks like this.
But we can see that it's successful in carving out this mass as
one Gaussian and then choosing all
of these other points as another Gaussian that looks like this.
And this is the best approximation of the initial two datasets that we had,
that the Gaussian mixture model can come up with,
that maybe other clustering methods are not able to come up with.